# Privacy Policy

At CodePod Inc., we take the privacy of our users very seriously. This Privacy
Policy outlines the types of information we collect, how we use it, and the
measures we take to protect it. By using our SaaS app, you agree to the terms of
this Privacy Policy.

Information Collection and Use

We collect personal information such as name, email address, and billing
information when you create an account and purchase a subscription.
Additionally, we collect information related to your use of our SaaS app,
including the code you write and the data you store within the app. This
information is used to provide you with a personalized experience, improve the
functionality of our SaaS app, and to better understand how our app is being
used.

Data Retention

We retain the personal information you provide us for as long as your account is
active or as needed to provide you with services. If you close your account, we
will delete your personal information within a reasonable time period, unless we
are required by law to retain it.

Data Security

We take extensive measures to protect the personal information of our users,
including the use of secure servers and encryption for sensitive data. Access to
personal information is limited to authorized employees who need it in order to
perform their job duties.

Cookies and Tracking Technologies

We use cookies and other tracking technologies to provide you with a more
personalized experience on our SaaS app. These technologies may collect
information about your use of our SaaS app, such as the pages you visit and the
content you view. You may choose to disable cookies in your browser, but please
note that this may limit your ability to use certain features of our SaaS app.

Sharing of Information

We do not share your personal information with third parties except as required
by law or in response to a valid request from a government or law enforcement
agency. We may also share your personal information with third-party service
providers who assist us in providing the services offered by our SaaS app.

Changes to Privacy Policy

We may update this Privacy Policy from time to time to reflect changes in our
practices or to comply with legal requirements. Any changes will be posted on
this page and will become effective upon posting. Your continued use of our SaaS
app after any changes have been made constitutes your acceptance of the new
Privacy Policy.

Contact Us

If you have any questions or concerns about our Privacy Policy or the handling
of your personal information, please contact us at hebi@codepod.team.
